---
author: Rodney J. Dyer
date: 2014-05-09
layout: post
title: Gravity models and network analyses of contemporary pollen mediated connectivity.
description: "DiLeo et al. (2014) Molecular Ecology, 23, 2973-2982."
categories: 
- dogwood
- gravity models
- pollen
- population graphs
- Publications
---
DiLeo MF, Siu JC, Rhodes MK, López-Villalobos A, Redwine A, Ksiazek K, Dyer RJ. 2014. The gravity of pollination: integrating at-site features into spatial analysis of contemporary pollen movement. Molecular Ecology, 23, 2973-2982.
## Abstract 
Pollen-mediated gene flow is a major driver of spatial genetic structure in plant populations. Both individual plant characteristics and site-specific features of the landscape can modify the perceived attractiveness of plants to their pollinators and thus play an important role in shaping spatial genetic variation. Most studies of landscape-level genetic connectivity in plants have focused on the effects of interindividual distance using spatial and increasingly ecological separation, yet have not incorporated individual plant characteristics or other at-site ecological variables. Using spatially explicit simulations, we first tested the extent to which the inclusion of at-site variables influencing local pollination success improved the statistical characterization of genetic connectivity based upon examination of pollen pool genetic structure. The addition of at-site characteristics provided better models than those that only considered interindividual spatial distance (e.g. IBD). Models parameterized using conditional genetic covariance (e.g. population graphs) also outperformed those assuming panmixia. In a natural population of 
*Cornus florida</i> L. (Cornaceae), we showed that the addition of at-site characteristics (clumping of primary canopy opening above each maternal tree and maternal tree floral output) provided significantly better models describing gene flow than models including only between-site spatial (IBD) and ecological (isolation by resistance) variables. Overall, our results show that including interindividual and local ecological variation greatly aids in characterizing landscape-level measures of contemporary gene flow.
[DOI: 10.1111/mec.12839](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B0T81CzLjtfPbkQ4bkN5M1J5ZFU&authuser=0)
